I'm super excited to have all
of our mission teams here.
I've had to kind of share that with a
couple of our members to let them know,
Hey, why do we have so many people?
I think our mission team outnumbers
our current people here today.
Um, and this is what I was trying
to share with them is this is how a
church starts is the church from all.
Comes and helps build churches, right.
Help start churches.
Um, and it's just this idea of, we
wouldn't be here as inspiring hope without
partner churches, just like you, who
financially support us, who send mission
teams, uh, for BCMs and things like that
to come and help us serve our city, to
be able to engage people and to love on
them and show them the love of Christ.
And so you guys get to be the
hands and feet of Jesus as we
continue to grow as a church.
And one day here's the cool part.
This is what I was sharing earlier, when.
We'll become the church.
That's sending people out to go serve.
Right.
Um, we won't actually be having
you guys come in and serve us.
We'll get to turn and do that.
So you guys are a part
of something really cool.
Um, I think I was talking
to a youth group last night.
I think it was Thompson station.
Their youth group is probably larger
than this church service today.
Um, and so their pricing, their
thing, and this is a pretty small
church and the truth is yes.
Um, but it all, every church and even
Thompson, station's got a cool story.
Every church started somewhere right.
With one.
Couple of families saying, man, we
sense God's moving in our lives and that
becomes something amazing in the city.
And so I want to share with you guys first
off, um, a little bit about who we are
as a church, and then I'm gonna kind of
jump into the text and catch everybody up.
But we are a church that
believes this here's our mission.
We designed.
To inspire hope by helping people
discover God's purpose for the life
through relationship with Jesus.
We really believe that every single
person has a divine purpose from God.
And they'll only discover that
through relationship with Jesus.
And so every week we come in and we talk
about God's word, we inspire and encourage
each other to know God more and more so
that we can go and inspire others to know.
More and more, um, we, we choose
to do that through four things.
We really believe as a church, as we
follow Jesus as we live in community,
as we serve those around us, that
we'll ultimately see God's kingdom
expanded, not only here locally in
our city, but also around the world.
And it's really cool how God has
continued to do that in our church.
Um, and I'm excited about today's
message and the way that we'll be
able to grow in God's word today.
So if you have a copy of God's word, we're
going to be in first Timothy chapter two.
First Timothy chapter two, we're
going to be in verse eight.
And, um, I said this to a couple of teams
last night, but I'll say it again today.
There's going to be some times I ask
questions that I really do want answers.
So if you're like, Hey, that's
just like a Ritter rhetorical.
Um, no, seriously.
I want you to answer those questions as
I ask them, because I love to be able to
hear your perspective on a few things.
So this is the first
question that I want to ask.
How many evolve, but then distracted by
something or someone in your life you've
been distracted by something or someone,
somebody give me a couple of examples
of how you've been distracted before.
What phone?
Yes.
A great cell phone.
School, video games, careers.
Yeah, kids.
There's a great one.
Yes.
You know, one of the things
that I typically get annoyed by.
Penn clickers aim.
Anybody got pen clicker in class.
I mean, we're sitting here trying
to study for a test or take a
test and this is what happens.
Okay.
So if you've got a pen today,
please don't be a pink clicker.
Um, so the reason why I asked that
question is I think many of us can
probably give examples of where we've
been distracted by someone or something.
Or we have been the one that
distracts someone from something.
If you probably are in dorms with another
friend, there's probably another friend
that's trying to get their homework done
and you're talking their ear off, or
you're on the phone with your boyfriend.
Right.
And you're annoying them for
getting their homework done.
But today we're going to
actually jump into a text.
And I want to kind of catch you
guys up on this as this idea
behind being distracted from the.
Being distracted from the mission.
I think as believers is easy and the
world that we live in to be distracted by
everything else and avoid fulfilling the
mission that God's called us to fulfill.
And most of us don't start off
with the intention to do that.
Most of us have great intentions
to fulfill again, the call that God
has on our life to make a difference
in the world, but we slowly.
Get distracted by small
things and big things.
And the next thing we know is we
are fulfilling our own desires and
not the desires that God has for us.
And so, um, before we jump into this
text, I want to catch everybody up
since everybody hasn't been here.
So we've been walking through the
first book of Timothy Timothy,
um, is, uh, basically a, a
true son in the faith of Paul.
So if you know the apostle Paul, he's the
one that wrote the book of first Timothy.
He was actually in prison
when he was writing this.
Um, and so he's writing to Timothy,
his dear son in the faith who is
a pastor at the church of Ephesus.
See, the one thing that I love
about Timothy is the more you get
to know Timothy, he was timid.
He was not as competent in his faith.
He was a little bit.
And his faith.
Um, and so one of the things that Paul
said is you need to stay an emphasis
and address the false teachers that
are there teaching incorrectly.
So he's challenging Timothy to stay.
But so the first part of the first
chapter of Timothy is as he's challenging
him to stay and address these false
teachers, here's what he says.
He says, Timothy, I want you to address
these false teachers with love and truth.
Love and truth.
Well, the question we ended up asking
this question is why and love and
truth, because we realized that
these false teachers were stirring
up controversy in the church.
They were stirring up anger and disputes.
And we're going to see a
little bit more of that today.
And so what Paul said was you
need to address it with the
opposite, which has God's love.
But it needs to be truth.
So as Paul began to share that with
Timothy, he also said, now, I also want
you to share with these false teachers
and your church that anyone can be saved.
This is where Paul's testimony is
shared at the end of chapter one.
Whereas Paul's life was so changed.
Paul said, this God saved me so that
everyone could know they could be saved.
It didn't matter how bad someone was.
Paul could say I was the worst
of sinners and anyone can be.
Then one of the things that Paul shared,
uh, in first Timothy is about Timothy
remembering his call and how his call
was going to be powerful for Timothy
to have the confidence, to be able to
address these false teachers and to be
able to continue to fulfill the call
on his life as a pastor of emphasis.
But then we jumped into chapter
two, a couple of weeks ago, and
chapter two said this, first of all,
pray, that was Paul's statement.
And first of all, praying, and
when we heard that we realized
this, that everything we do.
As a follower of Christ should start
with prayer because prayer is powerful.
He says, pray for everyone.
And especially those in authority,
especially those in authority,
because he want, he said, we
want to live peaceable lives.
Ones that make a difference in the
lives of those around us, so that we can
live our liberal lifestyle for Christ.
And then he says this and
we covered this last week.
He says that prayer is good, which
we translate it to be beautiful.
And it pleases God.
Who desires all to come to faith in
Christ and that's verse four of chapter
two, all to come to faith in Christ.
And then he begins to share who
Christ is and why Christ came and how
he saves everyone from their sins.
He took their place.
And Paul said, I have fulfilled my call
as a Herald and a teacher in an apostle.
To be able to share this
truth with other people.
So we're jumping into this text and I
want you guys to hear all those, that
background because we have to deal
with today's text within the context,
which wastes basically means this.
We have to view the next few
verses in light of what we know.
Paul is writing a letter to Timothy
to address false teaching things that
are disrupting the church service,
disrupting the church leadership
and the direction of the truth.
And that's going to be critical
as we read this text today.
And as we jump in and so we're
going to learn today, uh, how we
get distracted from the mission and
how we need to avoid distracting
others from that mission as well.
So first Timothy chapter one, or
somebody's chapter two, verse a.
If everybody found it, say,
amen, all right, let's jump in.
It says this in verse eight, it says.
I want men and every place to
pray, lifting up holy hands
without anger or argument.
Also, the women are to dress themselves
in modest clothing with decency and good
sense, not with elaborate hairstyles
or gold or pearls or excessive
apparel, but with good works, which is
proper for women who profess worship.
A woman is to learn quietly
with full submission.
I do not allow women to teach
or to have authority over a man.
Instead she is to remain quiet for
Adam was formed first, then Eve and
Adam was not deceived, but the woman
was deceived and transgressed, but
she will be saved through childbearing
if she, or if they continue in faith,
love, holiness, and good sense.
So let's pray and invite God in.
As we begin to walk through
this text, Lord Jesus.
We are so thankful.
Lord for you because we know that
Lord, you have a plan and a place
for each person in this room.
Lord, a plan for each one of us to fulfill
our call on this side of heaven, to be
able to help others discover hope in
Jesus, to be able to be transformed in
our lives, to be able to help our lives.
Lord look like.
And so Lord, I pray today as we
jump into this text and as we
begin to study your word, Lord,
I pray that our hearts are open.
Our minds are open.
Our ears are open to be changed,
Lord, to learn how the distractions
of the world need to be avoided,
that we need to focus on you.
Lord, we need to prioritize Lord
what you want us to prioritize, to
allow the mission to move forward.
So Lord, give me wisdom in order to share.
And, uh, Lord, we love you and
we pray this in your hands.
Amen.
And my notes fill in prayer.
So.
The first group that we see here
that was being a distraction
in the church was the men.
And I want to kind of start off this way.
I really believe that Paul is directly
speaking to the men throughout this
whole text, but he's speaking to the men
first because these men were interesting.
And when we're talking about these
false teachers, that Timothy is
supposed to address these aren't false
teachers that are outside the church,
they're actually inside this church.
So imagine this.
That we would today have teachers
or people within this group
right now that would be causing
controversy in the church.
And some of you may be a part
of a church that has that, but
in Paul's day, he did have that.
So when we look at this first group,
he says here, again, got to move back.
My Patriots is therefore I want men
in every place to pray, lifting up
holy hands without anger or argument.
So he uses this word, therefore,
and most of us asked this question
when he says, therefore, what's
it therefore is dealing with.
He says, therefore, since I just
got done telling you the F in the
last eight verses or seven verses
that you need to pray first.
And that God's desire is that
everyone comes to faith in Christ.
You need to eliminate these distractions.
You need to address these men who have
been angry and causing arguments and the.
And so here's what he said, men and
every place should pray, because again,
Paul's saying prayer is powerful, but
he makes this statement with holy hands.
And when you begin to look at holy
hands, you think about hands are holding.
If you think about the word,
holy is to be set apart.
I started thinking about holy hands
and I think about clean hands.
So here's what Paul's not saying.
Hey, before you pray, men, make sure you.
Wash your hands, put some of that germ X
on there, then lift them up and go before
God know what Paul is saying is these
men need to get their hearts, right?
Because what's happening is they're
causing anger and argument in the church.
And many of them are coming
before God in prayer without being
pure in their heart, which means
they're not coming to the Lord.
With repentant heart, they're
coming to the Lord with anger
and frustration in their heart.
And so what Paul's first challenge is, is
he wants men not to just pray, but to pray
with a undefiled heart, a heart free of
sin, one who comes humbly before the Lord.
I think he's uses this word
without anger or argument.
And so we can get that assumption as
we begin to look into this text that
these men were probably creating some
arguments and some anger over, um, what
they were talking about in church and
what they were discussing in the church.
And so we realized that in this ad is
speaking to a specific group and emphasis,
and this is why I say context matters
when we look at this, yes, every man
should probably pray in church with a
repentant heart, with their hands, hold
hell high, but only believe that Paul is
directly talking to this group because
this group was causing dissension in
the church because they were causing
anger and frustration in the church.
So his challenge was to this minute
and emphasis, pray with a pure heart.
And so I want to challenge
you in this thought.
If you're sitting here saying,
oh man, I love written.
You may be a lot like me.
We read scripture and we see somebody
that God's getting onto and we go,
man, I'm glad I'm not like them.
Well, usually when I start
having that type of a heart,
man, I'm glad I'm not like them.
God convicts me and realizes
I'm more like them than I think.
So here's, I think the piece of
you're sitting here saying, Hey,
I don't struggle, uh, with causing
arguments and decision in the church.
So I guess I don't need
to pray with holy hands.
I'm not a man.
I don't need to pray with whole hands.
I believe what Paul's even speaking
to us today is we shouldn't go before
the Lord in prayer without a repentant
heart, without a heart, right.
With God.
Which is so important.
I think part of prayer is repentance.
And so a lot of times when we talk
about prayers, maybe we should
go before God, before we ask.
And when, before we talk to him is to
come with him with that attitude of Lord.
If there's anything in
my heart that is wrong.
Let me go address it.
You hear this a lot before you give an.
If you were having a wrong against
a brother, you were to leave the
offering at the altar and go deal with
that, that unrepentant sin, before
you go in and offer that offering,
this is the same thing that Paul is
challenging men in the church to deal
with, but he's also challenging us.
And he's challenging these men to do
this specifically because they were
causing a distraction from the mission.
That Paul was challenging Timothy
to remind the church, to fulfill
again, to see everyone come to
faith in Christ, that that God would
allow to come to faith in Christ.
And so these men were
sitting in a bad example.
So let me ask this question.
Anybody ever been in a church where
you've dealt with a little bit of church
controversial, you have somebody that's
kind of causing disruption in the church.
There's a decent amount of people that do.
So you're slightly raising
your hand because you don't
maybe want to admit that.
Church is full of people that are broken.
And so all of us in this
room have some problems.
So we're going to deal with
that from time to time.
And so this isn't shocking to know
that there are some, some issues in
the church, but when you, when you
think back to those people who were
causing those issues, didn't seem to
distract the church from the mission.
They began to focus more on dealing with
the person and the inward fighting than
they were dealing with reaching the law.
I don't know about you guys, but I
think that's exactly where Paul's
getting at is these things were
causing distractions from the mission
that God had called them to fulfill.
So the question is, what is the mission?
Again, the mission we had to go back to
God is pleased by us praying, but then
he says, God is also pleased because he
desires that all come to faith in him.
So the mission is that every person
that we come in contact with, we get
the opportunity to share the gospel
with and share the love of Christ with.
But if we're busy, With
all the infighting, the
arguing will never do that.
So let me ask this question.
What are some ways that
you tend to get distracted?
And they may be very similar to
what we talked about earlier, but
what are some ways that you get
distracted from fulfilling the mission
that God's called you to fulfill?
What are some things that
happened in your life?
That's so busy in your life that
caused you to even be distracted
from fulfilling the mission that
God's called you to fulfill?
Extracurriculars.
Right.
So your hobbies right now, that's good.
What else?
Your job can do that, right?
You can be so consumed by your
job that you even don't even
think about the mission of God.
What else?
Yes.
People's opinions.
So you care more about
what they think of you.
So then you don't go fulfill the
mission that God's called you to.
That's great.
One more.
Social media.
Yes.
Your cell phone in general, right?
Social media is a great one.
When we think about that, these
are all things that distract
us from fulfilling the mission.
Here's another one I want to challenge
you in this, to be honest, this is maybe
where I don't get any answers, but I hope
that the Lord puts some in your heart.
If that is true.
What are some ways that you think you
might distract others from fulfilling?
The mission?
Got a lot quieter talk too much.
Yes, that's good.
Thank you.
What?
Yes.
You talk too much.
So you're the person our
we're calling her out
your opinions.
Yes, absolutely.
What else?
One more thing.
It's all right.
You know, they give it one more thing.
I challenge you in this, this thing again.
Um, I think, and I'll give you just
a quick example before we move on.
Um, we had a youth service last week
and, um, during worship again, I love
love youth, but I totally get, we, we
get distracted at times we're worshiping
and there's two students there.
And the older student is kind of
poking on the little students.
Talking to him about his shoes and
Robert in the middle of worship.
And I'm kind of this thing.
I understand kids.
I just, I do, but it just kept going on.
And finally, after we, we go and we
have a, a time of, of discussing.
And I just asked this per actually
asked the group that I was talking
to after I said, Hey dude, don't
you guys hate being distracted?
They're like, absolutely.
I'm like, what, what are
some things that happened?
You have your siblings distracted.
Yeah.
They distract me from video games.
I hate when they do that,
so-and-so distraction from this.
I said, great.
I said, do you realize
you were just distracting?
So-and-so whenever they were
trying to worship in their life.
Oh, and I said, here's the thing.
It was a lot of times we're good
at pointing out what other people.
Right.
So we're sitting in the
church and we want to go, man.
So-and-so is distracting me from this.
And so-and-so tra well, we don't even
look internally and realize that we're
the ones going around by the way that
we act, by the way that we talk, by
the way that we act one way at church
and another way outside the church.
And that person is looking
to choose an example.
And that's just the challenge here
to say, oh man, that's convicting.
Even as a pastor, right?
You may see me up here on Sunday, but
then you may talk to me on Monday and
go, man, you look a little bit different.
You act a little bit different.
So I'm even asking myself this question,
what am I doing that is distracting
people for fulfilling their call in their
life to be a part of the mission of God.
So those are some tough statements.
You guys won't leave here today without
being challenged, but I'll tell you this
every week that I preach, I challenged
myself at home to deal with this as well.
So I'm not just talking to you.
I'm literally talking to myself.
As well in this.
So let's look at the second group
that it was being a distraction in
the church, and this is the women
in the way that they were dressing.
And I always love so they're
picking on the women, but men,
just so you know, I think we could
start working the men into this.
Cause sometimes we dress a little bit
weird and a little bit distracting and
we'll, we'll get it to the heart of this.
And just a minute.
So when we look at this in verse
nine, he says also the women.
To dress themselves in modest
closing with decency and good sense
now with elaborate hairstyles,
gold pearls or excessive apparel.
And I'll read verse 10 in just a minute.
So Paul was not just dealing with man.
He was not just dealing with women.
He was actually.
Both all of us.
So we can't really point
fingers at one or the other.
We actually are all included in this.
And so he's addressing women who are more
focused on their outward appearance, then
their inward condition, their outward
appearance and their human condition.
I don't believe Paul's biggest issue.
Was there our condition more
than it was that they probably
spent hours and hours and hours.
And you all know that
happens on Sunday morning.
Sometimes you spend two
hours getting yourself ready.
But you never spend time praying.
You never spend time asking the
Lord what he's going to teach you.
And you've probably spent more
time coming in and talking about
where you got your hair done and
where you bought your dress from.
All I'm saying is these are the
distractions that Paul was speaking to
even back in the church of emphasis.
So it's been happening for a while
and he's, uh, he's dealing with
this in this idea that it was a
distraction, not only from them
personally, but those around them.
So I want to ask this.
Imagine the church of Ephesus.
These ladies coming in, get all these
crazy hairstyles, all these crazy
dress, everything walking into the
church during the church service.
What do you thinks were some of
the distractions in the middle
of church service because of the
way that these women are dressed?
What do you think were
some of the distractions?
Anybody?
Huh?
NV.
That's a great one.
Okay.
Let's let's think through this number
one, there's probably women in this group
that couldn't even purchase that stuff.
So the one they're watching and they're
judging, but then they're also envious.
They're like, man, I wish I
could have that hairstyle.
And man, I wish I could have that dress.
And the pastor's up there preaching
the gospel, trying to challenge
them to go share their faith and
all that person can think of is man.
I'm just, I don't know.
So let let's, let's go on to
another, what's another distraction
that could have happened in.
Lust.
That's a great one.
And I say a great one, not in a good
way, but man, you know this, okay.
We all could be real in here.
We're family, right?
A lady walks in this church guarantee or
down the road because we are talking about
just in a regular day lives dressing.
All fancy guys are typically going
to turn their head in church service.
They're going to be distracted.
And you may say, oh, I'm a Christian.
I've got this.
Yes.
But sometimes men.
Can't write it's it's that distracting?
So was Paul saying, Hey, beauty is
great, but we're, we're wanting to
focus on Christ in our services.
We're wanting to focus on Christ
in our lives, and we need to put
things into our life that doesn't
distract us from those things.
And so that's a distraction,
obviously from the men standpoint.
So men and women obviously would
spend more time looking at these
women than paying attention at
church envy and jealousy was one
of those that you guys mentioned.
But these women spent again, more time.
I think we're even looking at this.
This is an inward condition that
he's addressing these women's
spent more time on their outward
appearance and their inward heart.
They treated the church
like a fashion show.
And so you say, oh man, Paul's
really being mean to women.
No, actually he's not.
I don't even believe he's even saying
he's forbidding the use of these things.
What he's really trying to deal with
is that we tend to substitute our
outward appearance for an inward.
Condition of the heart.
So let me just say this.
If you come to church, even though you're
not dressed all nice and you put on a
front as though everything is okay, and
that life's great and you pay all your
bills and you never struggle with sin.
It's the same thing because you become a
distraction because if you bring all those
things up as though life's perfect and
you start telling somebody what happens.
'cause people start thinking,
man, I wish I had that life.
I wish I had that marriage
cause they never fight.
At least they never tell me they fight
when the truth is, we all know we have
arguments in our home and the truth is we
know we have kids that don't always do.
What's right.
And kids, you know, parents are always
perfect either, but you tend to tell
your friends that because you don't
want your friends to think that your
parents are weird, even though they are,
what, what am I getting out of here?
What is Paul getting out here?
Paul saying, be real and focus on coming
to church and being around other believers
with having a outward appearance.
And this is where we're talking about
this outward appearance is so important.
What Paul is talking
here, um, in verse 10.
So let's look at this verse 10
and he can kind of set us up here.
He says this, he says don't wear all these
things, but with good works as is proper
for women who profess worship together.
So here's what Paul's saying, ladies,
rather than distract people by what you
wear, why don't you live, act and dress
in a way that will point people to Jesus.
And again, he's speaking to
women to this day, I want to
speak to men and women in this.
We should live act and dress in such
a way that point people to Jesus,
not distract people from Jesus.
And that's really where Paul's.
Rather than drawn attention to
your closing, which causes people
to NBN less than admire you.
Why don't you draw people to Jesus by
your good works, which he says is what
professing women who follow Jesus.
Do I don't know about you guys.
This is where I go back to the,
the second, uh, chapter of, of,
of Timothy here, where he says.
That prayer, pleases God, and that
God desires for everyone to be saved.
I listen up whenever I hear
something says it pleases God.
So when I ask this question, how many in
here want to please God with their lives,
then today's truth should not be something
that is like, you feel attacked today
should be like, oh man, this is another
way to please God, by the way, in which I
dress, by the way, in which I distracted.
I need to eliminate
those things for my life.
And I need to start
pointing people to Jesus.
When you look at these things through
the heart and the lens of wanting
to please God, and knowing that he
will help others know him as well.
So Paul's addressing a heart
issue with these women.
To deal with this.
And so that's the, that's the second group
we talk about here, but then there's a
third group that was being a distraction.
And we're going to have to look at
this again, at context, I'm gonna
try to pull this all together here.
This third group was women
who were disrupting services
and disrespecting leadership.
And so you're maybe asking
the same question that I asked
as I began to look into this.
Where do you see that?
So let's read these next couple of verses.
He says a woman is to
learn quietly with full.
And he says, I do not allow women to
teach or have authority over a man.
Instead she is to remain quiet.
I'm going to stop right there.
Number one, if you go and read this
verse out of context, you're really
gonna feel like Paul is bashing women.
Number one, Paul is not doing that.
If you study enough about Paul,
there were so many women that were
involved in Paul's life from a care
standpoint and co-laboring that
he would speak about in his books.
Paul's not bashing.
Paul's actually talking about,
again, we're dealing with why
is Timothy getting this letter?
Because he's addressing false teachers
and leaders who are trying to disrupt
services and, and change the culture.
And so this is where we look at
it and say, these women must've
been doing something that
was distracting the services.
And so when we look at this, I want
to, I want us to look at this again.
He says a woman should learn quietly.
So I started looking at.
What does the word quietly mean?
You begin to go and study
it assist to be peaceable.
So what does peaceable mean?
Well, we had to go back to second Timothy.
So we first Timothy chapter two in
verse two, verse two, where he's
talking about living peaceful lives,
living a peaceful life means one
that doesn't cause distraction.
So when we hear that word quietly
translated to peaceable and to live
a undistracted life, we understand
that these women he's addressing
where women who are probably
causing distractions in the church,
causing distractions in the church.
And so he's addressing them and
saying, you need to live a quiet life.
And he, then he says this, he
says in full sun, What does
this full submission understand?
Well, this is the authority that
God has placed in the church.
I think so you all know this is a
tough, fun text to jump through and,
and, and work on, but he talks about
this full submission in the church and
understanding that these women were not
recognizing the leadership in the church.
So you understand this,
and this is just a.
So you, so I can try to be as
clear and honest as possible.
Understanding the authority in the
church is very similar to understanding
authority in your job or authority in the
school that you're at with your teacher.
It's not that they're the end all, and
they can make decisions for your life,
but they have a role in your life, in
an authority or in life, in a control
in your life as to how church services
should run or how school services
should run or how your job should be.
And so when we look at this, he's saying,
be in full submission to the authority
in the church, these women were not
submitting to the authority in the church.
Why would Paul say that?
Because Paul is saying Timothy, my true
son in the faith who I have given the
truth of God to teach you has authority
over your life to teach you the truth.
And so he's saying you should fully
submit to the truth that they're
sharing, because I know what is true.
And I know that leadership
that he has there is.
And so when, when you start
looking to this text, we start
making these assumptions based
out of that, that these women were
probably not following authority.
They were not being peaceable.
They were being
distractions in the church.
And I make that statement very similar
to teachers as a great example, because
I think about this, your teacher,
and if you've ever been in school.
So, and I may not be speaking to
the majority of the group here, but
if you've ever been in school, your
teacher has the authority over you.
Your teacher has more knowledge
in the subject over you.
The children in that class, excuse me,
in that class can not disrupt the class.
And if they do, they're going to
distract the students around them.
And the school sets up an authority
that the teacher has the authority
to keep the class from disruptions.
Because if not, there would be chaos.
So think about this.
Why is Paul saying this to Timothy?
Because if there's no
control and the church.
Then distractions happen from the
mission that God's called them to do.
And these women happened to be some
people that were not listening to
authority and they were causing
distractions in the church.
So then we look at verse 12 and
this is where it continues on.
He says, I do not allow women to
teach or to have authority over a man.
Instead she has to remain.
Um, and this is another one, right?
As is women to never teach.
Well again, if you study the
Bible, you understand women
do have the ability to teach.
And I believe that Paul's addressing
two things and the rest of the
text actually deals with this.
Paul is addressing two things.
He's also addressing, um,
how it directly means.
In the home when he's speaking to the home
and this is where verses 13 and 14 come
in, he says for Adam was formed first,
then Eve and Adam was not deceived, but
the woman was deceived and transgressed.
So what we understand is God's
original design was that the man was
supposed to be leader in the home.
Not better.
Because they are co laborers and
we're going to read something here
in just a minute, but that they were
supposed to be the leader in the home.
And as we can see, Adam was
not the leader in the home.
And what is Paula saying is that women
should basically not be the leader
in the home or in the church for the
fact of God's design was that the men
should be that leadership position.
But I want us to look at something
together because I think it will help help
us understand this is this idea between.
That the importance of the role
and the authority of the role.
And so let's look at this.
If you guys will turn with me at
Ephesians chapter five, you won't
have to go backwards very much, but
Ephesians chapter five, we're going
to look at verses 22 through 33.
And I thought it was really cool.
We actually studied through the
book of Ephesians last year, and
then we decided to go into verse
Timothy and how they connect here
with the emphasis in the fusion.
So Ephesians chapter five verses
22 through 33, this is talking
about the leadership in the home.
And so it says this wives submit to
your husbands as to the Lord, because
the husband is the head of the wife
as Christ is head of the church.
And he is the savior of the.
Now as the church submits to Christ.
So also wives are to submit to
their husbands in everything.
And husbands love your wives just
as Christ loved the church and gave
himself for her to make her a holy
cleansing, a holy and cleansing her
with the washing of the water by the.
And he did this in the present to present
the church to himself in splendor,
without spot or wrinkle or anything
of the like, but holy and blameless
and the same way husbands are to
love their wives as their own bodies.
He who loves his wife, loves himself
for no one ever hates his own flesh,
but provides and cares for it just
as Christ does for the church.
Since we are many members of it, for this
reason, a man will leave his mother and
father and he will be joined to his wife.
And two, we become one.
This mystery is profound, but I'm
talking about Christ in the church
to sum up each one of you is to love
his wife as himself and his wife
is supposed to respect her husband.
I've read this text here and I'm
trying to be as clear as I can,
but also we only have so much time.
Whenever Paul is specifically sitting
here and addressing women who are
supposed to not teach and have
authority over men, it's understanding
God's original design in the home
was for the man to lead the home now.
So important here that I love this picture
in Ephesians chapter five, when they are
joined together, they are one, I believe
that when men lead correctly, Women are
leading right alongside them there one.
So when he leads, they're one, when
she is submitting their one and
it's not, and I love this picture,
men had the more important role.
Adam is the one that should've stopped
his wife from eating the wrong fruit.
And today I believe in this text,
the men probably should have stood up
and handled that situation where the
women were taking control and said no,
like we should stand up and lead by.
But they didn't.
And so Paul's having to address it.
So that's specifically to the
home, but then when we look at the.
And we're actually going to
deal with eldership next week.
So many of you will not be here next week,
but Paul actually sets up how you can
become an elder and what that looks like.
And the responsibility of the elder
is, is, is a man's role in this fact.
But it's all also speaking as a, directly
to how the church was set up by God.
So in the church, Paul was also speaking
specifically about church eldership
elders and pastors had the authority in
the church to lead and teach the church.
And I always think of Ephesians 12,
Ephesians four 12, which says that
ministers or elders are supposed to equip
the saints for the work of the ministry.
And so God divine, a divine Providence
was for men to be appointed in the church
to lead the church and to lead the.
But women have such an
important role in the church.
So can the women teach?
That's a great question.
I have to answer in this text.
Can they teach the Bible
says absolutely 100%.
You see it all over the Bible where
women teach other women, women teach it.
Here's the coolest part.
Do you know?
Paul's or not Paul's Timothy's grandmother
and mother raised Timothy up in the truth.
So they taught Timothy all
the way up until he met.
Paul is sort of following Paul.
They had an important role in teaching.
Here's another cool part.
Also in acts, I think it's acts 1826.
There's two people, a man and
a wife or a man and husband.
I'm saying this all wrong.
I'm heading you guys down
the wrong trail here.
I'm going to say the slowest.
Why I say it?
Husband and a wife took a man
aside and began to teach him the
truth where he was going wrong.
Women have an important role in teaching.
Now, the other question is, does this mean
that women can't make decisions in the
church help teach in certain situations
to become leaders in the church?
The answer is they actually can
under the leadership and authority
that God has placed in the
church by men to lead the charge.
And so I, I was thinking
about this as a pastor.
I had the responsibility as what's exactly
what Timothy is being challenged with to
make sure that the truth is being taught.
And that as a church, we are leading a
godly church under the authority that God
has given me as an elder in the church.
And so will women teach in and throughout
our church in different situations?
Absolutely.
100%.
I believe God has defined that to have
an authority as a whole over the church,
or to have an authority over a man,
completely God, doesn't divine that.
And that's exactly what
we're seeing this text.
And I, I had to kind of deal with
this in the nutshell, but we're also
dealing with this and what we believe
these women were probably doing.
They were taking leadership
positions from the men.
They were standing up and they were
speaking and they were speaking false.
'cause that's why Paul's writing
this letter because there were people
that were coming in and teaching
incorrectly about the gospel.
That Jesus was not the way
that the law was the way.
And so they were causing distractions
by how they were trying to take these
positions and teach and correctly
and not listen to authority.
And they were not being peaceable.
So I want to read this.
I heard this from John Piper
and we're going to move on.
John Piper described authority
and submission this way.
He said authority refers to the
divine calling of spiritual gifted
men that take primary responsibility
as elders for Christ, like servant
leadership teaching in the church.
But submission refers to the
divine calling of the rest of
the church, both men and women to
honor and affirm the leadership of
the elders and to be equipped by.
For the hundreds and hundreds
of various ministries available
to men and women in church.
So that's just a little bit more of
a clear picture when we talk about
submission and authority, but then we look
at verse 15 and this is where it gets.
It gets fun to kind of explain this.
He says verse 15, but she's speaking
of women will be saved through
childbearing if they continue in the
faith, love holiness with good sense.
Get more back in first
Timothy, if you're wondering.
So Paul's referencing the position
that most women held in that.
As childbearers.
And for starters, when we look at
this text, it's actually interesting.
It says women will be
saved through childbearing.
If you guys will go back to Genesis,
there was a prophecy made that there
would be a woman that would bear a child
who would save the world from their sins.
And this is Mary.
And so actually all of us are
saved through a woman, burying
a child, which is Jesus.
And it's interesting to think about this.
He's actually lifting up the woman's
position and saying it is a important
position that brought forth Christ.
Wow.
Like that is amazing.
Paul's pointing that out, but then he also
says, he, speaking of mothers who do bear
into bearing child, you have an important.
You and your husband.
Cause he says this, if you both
continue in love and faith and
holiness with good sense, he
says, this is how you don't cost.
Distractions is by you lead by the
godly example and the godly prescription
that God has set forth for men to lead
in the home, not to be better, but
to lead in their position in which
God's placed them in women to lead in
the position that God's placed them.
Does this mean?
And this is what as good
question everybody has.
This is mean every woman is
subject to be just childbearers
and to work from the home.
That's not what he is saying.
He's saying that through this, in
his time Mitt, most of the women
did live this way, where all they
were, they were at home childbearing.
I'll tell you this.
It's one of the most important
positions and my wife's not here today.
She's at home with our sick
kids and I'll tell you this, her
role in the house, I would say
sometimes more important than mine.
And I'm so thankful she's at
home taking care of my kids.
So when you look at this, this is
actually raising the woman's position.
To a high level of importance and
the role of not only her faith and
her, but it's our family's faith.
So here, here's the important thing.
All of our roles are important, but in
this text, Paul was specifically pointing
to women to not be a distraction for the
mission for men to not be a distraction
from the mission and how they were
acting in the church and around other
believers, this can apply to our churches.
Of how we can become distractions
to other people, fulfilling the
mission that's in their life.
And we can become the distraction
also, and us fulfilling the
mission that isn't our life.
Yes.
We can look at this in context today.
We can see the issues that
Paul was dealing with.
We can talk a little bit about leadership
and women's submission and men's roles,
but I want us to understand that I believe
Paul is dealing with false teachers
who were trying to rise up and prevent
Christ from being preached correctly.
And he is saying, I need to
shut this down by speaking.
About these truths to be
able to correct them and help
Timothy not back down from this.
So we have to view this text in
light of that, therefore, right?
The God's ultimate desires
for everyone to be saved.
And then anything that we did that
distracts from that purpose needs
to be changed and dealt with.
So our roles are, are important
today to deal with this.
And so we, we always take a
time at the end of service.
I'm gonna, I'll talk through a
few more things type of theme to
service, to talk about Invictus.
And most churches don't talk
enough about invitation.
That's not a knock on them more
than I want to be as best we can.
Invitation is not about just standing
up and singing the song that the worship
pastor leads, um, and, and, and go on out.
The time for invitation is an opportunity
to be invited, to take a next step
for whatever God taught you today to
say, Hey, there's something I need to
apply to my, apply to myself in this.
And so what could that be for men?
It could be, Hey, we need to lead.
We need to be examples.
And I love this.
We need to be servants to those around
us because that's what Christ says is
that men serve men set the example.
So maybe that's a challenge for you men
to step up and deal with that in your
heart to, to be a leader and to serve
well for some of you could be, Hey,
I'm being a distraction to my friends.
I'm, I'm not living in such a way
that is pointing them to Christ by
the way that I'm dressing, by the way
that I'm talking, by the way that I'm
acting for some of us, it could be.
That we are dealing with.
Some of the things that we're dealing
with here is that, um, that that outward
appearance is obviously not honoring God.
Um, or maybe your role in the church.
You're being one that is causing
controversy in the church
or around other believers.
I don't know what it is that God may be
speaking to you about, but I think all of
us can learn today that we need to avoid
distractions that distract us from the
mission that God has called us to fulfill.
So my challenge to you is to ask God
during this time of invitation, what.
That I need to turn from what is it
that I need to take a next step in?
And they get in that can be
personal distractions, that
God is challenging you on.
It could be distracting others
that God is challenging you on.
Maybe for you.
It's you've been allowing all the
worldly distractions to distract
you from following Christ.
And that's my last challenge to you as
we come in here today and an interesting
text to jump into and deal with, but I
would say this, that God so loves you.
We are here every single Sunday, not
because that's what we're supposed to do.
We're here because we believe
this service makes a difference.
When we grow in our relationship
with Christ, we learn more about him.
We get the opportunity to worship and
understand that God is so important.
It's to put the priorities
right in our life.
So God may be saying this
today, you showed up today.
You're a part of the mission team, or you
showed up today and you've been a part of
the church for awhile, but you've allowed
everything around you to distract you
from giving your life to Christ today.
Eliminate the distraction.
Today is the day of salvation.
Today's the day to say, Hey, I
want to give my life to Christ.
I want to start following him
and learning more about how it is
to have a relationship with him.
And if that's you today, my commitment
every week that I'm here is to hang out
in the back by the next steps table.
And during the invitation, you can
come back and talk to me if you need
prayer, if you need somebody to counsel
with you, I'm here to talk with you.
But my challenge today do not leave today.
Before you take a next
step in the area of your.
And what we talked about today, or
an area of your faith in giving your
life to Christ, because God desires
to do abundantly more than you can
ask or think, and he desires to
know you and for you to know him.
So we're going to pray.
And after I pray, we're going to stand
and worship here in invitation, seek
the Lord and what he's asking you to do.
And I just pray that the Lord
changes your heart as we do this.
So Lord, we just love you, Lord.
We're so thankful for today.
We're so thankful for your love.
And your grace and your
mercy in our lives Lord.
And today Lord could be easily.
Just the message itself
could be distracting.
Maybe it can be confusing.
Lord, I pray that you remove all of it.
The Lord you take time for each one of us.
Lord, if we've checked out or if we've
Lord fallen asleep in the middle of
the message, maybe we wake up right
now and we take time to consider
Lord what you are trying to teach.
Well, I think you just remind
us of how important it is for us
to know you personally, and Lord
how much you changed our lives.
And Lord, if you've changed our lives
and given us a hope and a peace and
forgiveness Lord, that we desire
others to experience that same thing.
So Lord, if we do desire for the
others to experience that same
thing, Lord, I pray that we today
repent and turn from the distraction.
They're preventing us from
fulfilling that call in our lives.
Lord, let us not miss that opportunity
because there is way too many
people that need to know you that
that may not be here tomorrow.
They need to know you today or let us not
get distracted by the things that will
prohibit us from fulfilling the call of
seeing as many people saved as we can.
So Lord, we love you and we
pray this in your holy name.
Amen.